Want to contribute? Great! First, read this page (including the small print at
the end).

## Before you contribute

Before we can use your code, you must sign the [Google Individual Contributor
License Agreement](https://cla.developers.google.com/about/google-individual)
(CLA), which you can do online.

The CLA is necessary mainly because you own the copyright to your changes, even
after your contribution becomes part of our codebase, so we need your permission
to use and distribute your code. We also need to be sure of various other
things: for instance, that you'll tell us if you know that your code infringes
on other people's patents. You don't have to sign the CLA until after you've
submitted your code for review and a member has approved it, but you must do it
before we can accept your code into our codebase.

For larger changes, it is recommended that you first propose your idea and
gather consensus on the [nomulus-discuss mailing
list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/nomulus-discuss).

## Code reviews and pull requests

All submissions, including submissions by project members, require review. We
use GitHub [pull
requests](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/) for this
purpose. Because GitHub is not yet the authoritative source of truth for the
Nomulus codebase, pull requests are closed (*not* merged) upon approval, and a
commit with full attribution to the author will be included in the next regular
sync of code to GitHub. Owing to this mechanism, every pull request ultimately
results in a single commit in the repository, so it is recommended that pull
requests contain only a single commit to minimize possible merge headaches for
you.

Contributions should abide by the [Google Java Style
Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html). We recommend that
you use the [`google-java-format`](https://github.com/google/google-java-format)
utility to help you format your code (we use it ourselves). Note, please do not
send pull requests containing formatting changes to unrelated code.

## The small print

Contributions made by corporations are covered by a different agreement than the
one above, the [Software Grant and Corporate Contributor License
Agreement](https://cla.developers.google.com/about/google-corporate).
