# Registry Data Import Architecture

*See also the [RDE usage guide](./rde-import-usage.md).*

The Registry Data Import feature was designed to handle escrow files from other
registries with millions of domains. In the spirit of divide and conquer, the
mapreduce library is used to break up the work of the import into smaller chunks
that can be processed in a reasonable period of time. This process is broken
down into four separate mapreduce jobs that must be run in sequence due to how
datastore transactions work and due to dependencies between registry objects.
The steps are broken up as follows:

__Initial Setup__ - This is a set of manual steps that must be completed before
the process can be run, and is out of the scope of this document. See
[Usage](./rde-import-usage.md) for more details.

__Contacts Import__ - Reads contact entries from an escrow file and saves them
as `ContactResource` entities. `HistoryEntry` entities are also created for the
contact. This process depends on initial setup, but does not depend on any
previous step being run.

__Hosts Import__ - Reads host entries from an escrow file and saves them as
`HostResource` entities. `HistoryEntry` entities are also created for the hosts.
This process depends on initial setup, but does not depend on any previous step
being run.

__Domains Import__ - Reads domain entries from an escrow file and saves them as
`DomainResource` entities. For each domain imported, a history entry, autorenew
billing event and autorenew poll message will also be created. For domains that
are in pending transfer state, the import process will also create future
entities for automatic server approval in the same fashion as domain transfer
request EPP messages. Domains cannot be imported until the contacts and hosts
required by the domain are imported in previous steps.

__Hosts Link__ - Reads host entries from an escrow file and links in-zone hosts
to their superordinate domains. This is the last step because both hosts and
domains have to be imported before the link can be made in both directions.

## Components

Each mapreduce job (with the exception of Hosts Link) is made up of a similar
set of components. Note that much of the work that is done by each job strongly
resembles the inversion of the Registry Data Export feature, and reuses the Jaxb
representations of the xml elements that compose escrow files.

__Parser__ - The parser is the lowest level of the import process. This
component parses an escrow file (provided as an open stream from Google Cloud
Storage) into discrete JAXB objects. The parser maintains an internal cursor in
the xml file that represents the next element to be read, and can advance to and
skip any number of elements.

__Reader__ - The reader is configured by each mapreduce job to load an escrow
file from Cloud Storage and use a parser to read a selected subset of the file,
forwarding the results to a mapper.

__Input__ - An input is responsible for determining how many reader instances to
create and which section of the escrow file should be consumed by each reader.

__Converter__ - The converter accepts a Jaxb object and returns an equivalent
resource that can be saved to the datastore.

__Import Utility Logic__ - Common import logic is consolidated into a single
place, such as creation of index entities and escrow file validation.

__Mapper__ - The mapper accepts a stream of Jaxb objects from the reader and
uses the converter to map them to resource objects. Then for each resource
object produced, the mapper will attempt to save the resource and any related
objects to the datastore in a transaction. This is an idempotent operation; if
any resource has been previously imported by the process, it will be ignored.

__Action Endpoint__ - The action endpoint is responsible for accepting requests
to launch each step of the import process, bootstrapping mapreduce jobs, and
redirecting the client to the status page of the import job. This is the entry
point of the import process.
